mods/rp_mobs/API_TEMPLATES.md, before:

# Repixture Mobs API: Task Templates

This document contains additional information about the Repixture Mobs API.
It contains task template functions for common use cases so we don't have to
start from zero for every mob.

See `API.md` for the main document and a general description of the task
system.

## Microtask templates

A microtask template is a function that returns a microtask that you can
then use to insert in a task. All microtask templates are part of the
`rp_mobs.microtasks` table.

### How to use

You simply call one of the template functions with the required parameters
(if any) to get a microtask returned. You then can insert this microtask
like any other microtask in a task.

Minimal example for doing nothing for 3 seconds (we assume that `mob`
is a mob object reference and `task_queue` is a task queue):

```
local task = rp_mobs.create_task({label="do nothing"})
local microtask = rp_mobs.microtasks.sleep(3)
rp_mobs.add_microtask_to_task(mob, task, microtask)
rp_mobs.add_task_to_task_queue(task_queue, task)
```

Also, all microtasks come with a 'finish' condition. If this condition is met,
the microtask is finished and removed from the task, continuing the processing
with the next microtask (if any). If not noted otherwise, the microtask
finishes successfully.

## Microtask template reference

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.drag(move_vector, yaw, drag, max_timer)`

Slow mob down for the specified drag vector at the specified drag axes.
The drag vector specifies on each axis how much the mob slows down.

This will call `set_velocity` directly.

Parameters:

* `mob`: Mob object
* `dtime`: `dtime` from `on_step`
* `drag`: Drag vector. Higher number = faster slowdown.
* `drag_axes`: List of axes to which apply drag for (`"x"`, `"y"`, `"z"`).
  Other axes will be ignored.



### `rp_mobs.microtasks.move_straight(move_vector, yaw, drag, max_timer)`

Move in a straight line on any axis.

Parameters:

* `move_vector`: velocity vector to target.
* `yaw`: look direction in radians
* `drag`: (optional) if set as a vector, will adjust the velocity smoothly towards the target
   velocity, with higher axis values leading to faster change. If unset, will set
   velocity instantly. If drag is 0 or very small on an axis, this axis will see no velocity change
* `max_timer`: automatically finish microtask after this many seconds (nil = infinite)

Finish condition: If the time runs out (if set with `max_timer`), otherwise does not finish
on its own.

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.walk_straight(walk_speed, yaw, jump, jump_clear_height, stop_at_object_collision, max_timer)`

Walk in a straight horizontal line (on the XZ plane), will jump if hitting a node obstacle and `jump~=nil`.

It's recommended the mob is subject to gravity.

NOTE: You **MUST** call `rp_mobs.scan_environment` in the entity's `on_step` function every step for this to work.

Parameters:

* `walk_speed`: How fast to walk
* `yaw`: walk direction in radians
* `jump`: jump strength if mob needs to jump or nil if no jumping
* `jump_clear_height`: how many nodes to jump up at most
* `stop_at_object_collision`: stop walking if colliding with object
* `max_timer`: automatically finish microtask after this many seconds (nil = infinite)

Finish condition: If the time runs out (if set with `max_timer`) or collides with
and object if `stop_at_object_collision` is true.

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.walk_straight_towards(walk_speed, target_type, target, set_yaw, reach_distance, jump, jump_clear_height, stop_at_reached, stop_at_object_collision, max_timer)`

Walk in a straight horizontal line (on the XZ plane) towards a position or object,
will jump if hitting node obstacle and `jump~=nil`.

It's recommended the mob is subject to gravity.

NOTE: You **MUST** call `rp_mobs.scan_environment` in the entity's `on_step` function every step for this to work.

Parameters:

* `walk_speed`: How fast to walk
* `target_type`: "pos" (position) or "object"
* `target`: target, depending on `target_type`: position or object handle
* `set_yaw`: If true, will set mob's yaw to face target
* `reach_distance`: If mob is within this distance towards target, stop walking. If `nil`, has no effect
* `max_distance`: If mob is further away from target than this distance, stop walking. If `nil`, has no effect
* `jump`: jump strength if mob needs to jump or nil if no jumping
* `jump_clear_height`: how many nodes to jump up at most
* `stop_at_reached`: stop walking and finish if within `reach_distance` of target
* `stop_at_object_collision`: stop walking and finish if colliding with object
* `max_timer`: automatically finish microtask after this many seconds (nil = infinite)

Finish condition: If any of the following is true:
* When the time runs out (if `max_timer` was set)
* Target is within `reach_distance` of the mob and `stop_at_reached` is true
* Target is further away than `max_distance`
* When colliding with object if `stop_at_object_collision` is true

This microtask finishes successfully unless there is an error.

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.set_yaw(yaw)`

Set mob yaw instantly to `yaw`. Finishes instantly.

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.rotate_yaw_smooth(yaw, time)`

Change mob yaw linearly over time towards a target yaw.

Parameters:

* `yaw`: Target yaw in radians or `"random"` for random yaw
* `time`: How much time to use until the target yaw is reached (in ms)

Finish condition: When target yaw was reached (within a small tolerance).

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.autoyaw()`

Set the mob yaw based on the current velocity on the XZ coordinate plane.
If the mob velocity on this plane is zero or near-zero, yaw will
not be changed.

Finish condition: Finishes instantly.

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.sleep(time)`

Do nothing for the given `time` in seconds, then finishes.

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.set_acceleration(acceleration)`

Instantly set mob acceleration to the given `acceleration` parameter (a vector).

Finish condition: Finishes instantly.

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.follow_path(path, walk_speed, jump_strength, set_yaw, can_jump, finish_func)

Make the mob follow along a path, i.e. a sequence of positions by walking.
This assumes the mob is bound to gravity along the whole path and the *entire* path is walkable.
Jumping and falling is supported, but not climbing or swimming.
Note: This function does not check the nodes along the path for validity.

Parameters:

* `path`: List of positions to follow. Can alternatively be set to `nil`,
  in which case the path will be read from `mob._temp_custom_state.follow_path`
  when the microtask starts
* `walk_speed`: How fast to walk
* `jump_strength`: How strong to jump (must be able to clear a height of `max_jump` at least)
* `set_yaw`: If true, mob will automatically set the yaw to face towards
  the next path position (default: false)
* `can_jump`: If true, mob will jump to increase height (default: true)
* `finish_func`: Optional function called every step with arguments `self, mob`
  to force microtask to finish early.
  `self` is the microtask reference, `mob` the mob reference.
  Returns `<stop>, <success>`. If `stop` is `true`, microtask will finish.
  with the given success (`success` = `true`/`false`; `true` is default).

Finish condition: There are multiple reasons for finishing:

* When the mob has reached the final position (within a small tolerance) (considered success)
* When mob was stuck and unable to continue to walk for a few seconds (considered failure)
* When `finish_func` is has returned `true` for its 1st return value

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.follow_path_climb(path, walk_speed, climb_speed, set_yaw, finish_func, anim_walk, anim_climb, anim_idle)`

Make the mob follow along a path, i.e. a sequence of positions by *climbing*.
The difference from `rp_mobs.microtask.follow_path` is that the mob climbs instead
of walks. The path must exclusively consist of nodes that are considered 'climbable'.

This assumes the mob is *not* bound to gravity while climbing and the *entire* path consists of
climbable (or equivalent) nodes from the viewpoint of the mob.

This function could also be used to follow a path through nodes with liquid physics.

Parameters:

* `path`: See `rp_mobs.microtasks.follow_path`
* `walk_speed`: Horizontal movement speed
* `climb_speed`: Vertical movement speed
* `set_yaw`: See `rp_mobs.microtasks.follow_path`
* `finish_func`: See `rp_mobs.microtasks.follow_path`
* `anim_walk`: Mob animation name for horizontal movement (default: `"walk"`)
* `anim_climb`: Mob animation name for vertical movement (default: `"idle"`)
* `anim_idle`: Mob animation name when idling (default: `"idle"`)

Commit message:

Villager now stops when walking towards danger

mods/rp_mobs/API_TEMPLATES.md, after:

# Repixture Mobs API: Task Templates

This document contains additional information about the Repixture Mobs API.
It contains task template functions for common use cases so we don't have to
start from zero for every mob.

See `API.md` for the main document and a general description of the task
system.

## Microtask templates

A microtask template is a function that returns a microtask that you can
then use to insert in a task. All microtask templates are part of the
`rp_mobs.microtasks` table.

### How to use

You simply call one of the template functions with the required parameters
(if any) to get a microtask returned. You then can insert this microtask
like any other microtask in a task.

Minimal example for doing nothing for 3 seconds (we assume that `mob`
is a mob object reference and `task_queue` is a task queue):

```
local task = rp_mobs.create_task({label="do nothing"})
local microtask = rp_mobs.microtasks.sleep(3)
rp_mobs.add_microtask_to_task(mob, task, microtask)
rp_mobs.add_task_to_task_queue(task_queue, task)
```

Also, all microtasks come with a 'finish' condition. If this condition is met,
the microtask is finished and removed from the task, continuing the processing
with the next microtask (if any). If not noted otherwise, the microtask
finishes successfully.

## Microtask template reference

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.drag(move_vector, yaw, drag, max_timer)`

Slow mob down for the specified drag vector at the specified drag axes.
The drag vector specifies on each axis how much the mob slows down.

This will call `set_velocity` directly.

Parameters:

* `mob`: Mob object
* `dtime`: `dtime` from `on_step`
* `drag`: Drag vector. Higher number = faster slowdown.
* `drag_axes`: List of axes to which apply drag for (`"x"`, `"y"`, `"z"`).
  Other axes will be ignored.



### `rp_mobs.microtasks.move_straight(move_vector, yaw, drag, max_timer)`

Move in a straight line on any axis.

Parameters:

* `move_vector`: velocity vector to target.
* `yaw`: look direction in radians
* `drag`: (optional) if set as a vector, will adjust the velocity smoothly towards the target
   velocity, with higher axis values leading to faster change. If unset, will set
   velocity instantly. If drag is 0 or very small on an axis, this axis will see no velocity change
* `max_timer`: automatically finish microtask after this many seconds (nil = infinite)

Finish condition: If the time runs out (if set with `max_timer`), otherwise does not finish
on its own.

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.walk_straight(walk_speed, yaw, jump, jump_clear_height, stop_at_object_collision, max_timer)`

Walk in a straight horizontal line (on the XZ plane), will jump if hitting a node obstacle and `jump~=nil`.

It's recommended the mob is subject to gravity.

NOTE: You **MUST** call `rp_mobs.scan_environment` in the entity's `on_step` function every step for this to work.

Parameters:

* `walk_speed`: How fast to walk
* `yaw`: walk direction in radians
* `jump`: jump strength if mob needs to jump or nil if no jumping
* `jump_clear_height`: how many nodes to jump up at most
* `stop_at_object_collision`: stop walking if colliding with object
* `max_timer`: automatically finish microtask after this many seconds (nil = infinite)

Finish condition: If the time runs out (if set with `max_timer`) or collides with
and object if `stop_at_object_collision` is true.

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.walk_straight_towards(walk_speed, target_type, target, set_yaw, reach_distance, jump, jump_clear_height, stop_at_reached, stop_at_object_collision, max_timer)`

Walk in a straight horizontal line (on the XZ plane) towards a position or object,
will jump if hitting node obstacle and `jump~=nil`.

It's recommended the mob is subject to gravity.

NOTE: You **MUST** call `rp_mobs.scan_environment` in the entity's `on_step` function every step for this to work.

Parameters:

* `walk_speed`: How fast to walk
* `target_type`: "pos" (position) or "object"
* `target`: target, depending on `target_type`: position or object handle
* `set_yaw`: If true, will set mob's yaw to face target
* `reach_distance`: If mob is within this distance towards target, stop walking. If `nil`, has no effect
* `max_distance`: If mob is further away from target than this distance, stop walking. If `nil`, has no effect
* `jump`: jump strength if mob needs to jump or nil if no jumping
* `jump_clear_height`: how many nodes to jump up at most
* `stop_at_reached`: stop walking and finish if within `reach_distance` of target
* `stop_at_object_collision`: stop walking and finish if colliding with object
* `max_timer`: automatically finish microtask after this many seconds (nil = infinite)

Finish condition: If any of the following is true:
* When the time runs out (if `max_timer` was set)
* Target is within `reach_distance` of the mob and `stop_at_reached` is true
* Target is further away than `max_distance`
* When colliding with object if `stop_at_object_collision` is true

This microtask finishes successfully unless there is an error.

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.set_yaw(yaw)`

Set mob yaw instantly to `yaw`. Finishes instantly.

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.rotate_yaw_smooth(yaw, time)`

Change mob yaw linearly over time towards a target yaw.

Parameters:

* `yaw`: Target yaw in radians or `"random"` for random yaw
* `time`: How much time to use until the target yaw is reached (in ms)

Finish condition: When target yaw was reached (within a small tolerance).

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.autoyaw()`

Set the mob yaw based on the current velocity on the XZ coordinate plane.
If the mob velocity on this plane is zero or near-zero, yaw will
not be changed.

Finish condition: Finishes instantly.

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.sleep(time)`

Do nothing for the given `time` in seconds, then finishes.

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.set_acceleration(acceleration)`

Instantly set mob acceleration to the given `acceleration` parameter (a vector).

Finish condition: Finishes instantly.

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.follow_path(path, walk_speed, jump_strength, set_yaw, can_jump, finish_func, valid_node_func)

Make the mob follow along a path, i.e. a sequence of positions by walking.
This assumes the mob is bound to gravity along the whole path and the *entire* path is walkable.
Jumping and falling is supported, but not climbing or swimming.
Note: This function does not check the nodes along the path for validity.

Parameters:

* `path`: List of positions to follow. Can alternatively be set to `nil`,
  in which case the path will be read from `mob._temp_custom_state.follow_path`
  when the microtask starts
* `walk_speed`: How fast to walk
* `jump_strength`: How strong to jump (must be able to clear a height of `max_jump` at least)
* `set_yaw`: If true, mob will automatically set the yaw to face towards
  the next path position (default: false)
* `can_jump`: If true, mob will jump to increase height (default: true)
* `finish_func`: Optional function called every step with arguments `self, mob`
  to force microtask to finish early.
  `self` is the microtask reference, `mob` the mob reference.
  Returns `<stop>, <success>`. If `stop` is `true`, microtask will finish.
  with the given success (`success` = `true`/`false`; `true` is default).
* `valid_node_func`: Optional function that checks if the next node is still “valid” (i.e. can
  be safely moved towadrds). It's called right before the mob is starting to go towards
  a new position of the path with arguments `pos, node`.
  Returns `true` or `false`. If it returns `true`, the microtask will finish and fail.

Finish condition: There are multiple reasons for finishing:

* When the mob has reached the final position (within a small tolerance) (considered success)
* When mob was stuck and unable to continue to walk for a few seconds (considered failure)
* When `finish_func` is has returned `true` for its 1st return value

### `rp_mobs.microtasks.follow_path_climb(path, walk_speed, climb_speed, set_yaw, finish_func, anim_walk, anim_climb, anim_idle)`

Make the mob follow along a path, i.e. a sequence of positions by *climbing*.
The difference from `rp_mobs.microtask.follow_path` is that the mob climbs instead
of walks. The path must exclusively consist of nodes that are considered 'climbable'.

This assumes the mob is *not* bound to gravity while climbing and the *entire* path consists of
climbable (or equivalent) nodes from the viewpoint of the mob.

This function could also be used to follow a path through nodes with liquid physics.

Parameters:

* `path`: See `rp_mobs.microtasks.follow_path`
* `walk_speed`: Horizontal movement speed
* `climb_speed`: Vertical movement speed
* `set_yaw`: See `rp_mobs.microtasks.follow_path`
* `finish_func`: See `rp_mobs.microtasks.follow_path`
* `anim_walk`: Mob animation name for horizontal movement (default: `"walk"`)
* `anim_climb`: Mob animation name for vertical movement (default: `"idle"`)
* `anim_idle`: Mob animation name when idling (default: `"idle"`)
* `valid_node_func`: See `rp_mobs.microtasks.follow_path`
