mods/rp_tnt/API.md, before:

# `rp_tnt` API

This file documents the functions available for developers in this mod.


## `tnt.burn(pos, igniter)`

Ignite TNT at `pos`.

* `pos`: Position of TNT node
* `igniter`: Optional player object of player who ignited it or `nil` if nobody/unknown

Note: The `igniter` is only used for logging purposes.



## `tnt.boom(pos, radius, sound)`

High-level TNT explosion.
Immediately blows up a TNT node at `pos`,
removes nodes, drops items, damages entities, spawns particles.

Parameters:

* `pos`: Position of TNT node. The TNT node is required!
* `radius`: Explosion radius (default: read from `tnt_radius` setting)
* `sound`: Sound name for explosion (default: `tnt_explode`)



## `tnt.boom_notnt(pos, radius, sound, remove_nodes)`

High-level explosion.
Same as `tnt.boom` but works at any position. No TNT required.

Parameters:

* `pos`: Position of the explosion center.
* `radius`: Explosion radius (default: read from `tnt_radius` setting)
* `sound`: Sound name for explosion (default: `tnt_explode`)
* `remove_nodes`: If true, will remove nodes, otherwise won't. (default: false)


## `tnt.explode(pos, radius, sound)`

Low-level explosion.
Immediately removes and drops nodes at `pos`
with a radius `radius` and plays a `sound`.
There are no particle effects nor is ther entity damage or
anything else.

* `pos`: Center of the explosion
* `radius`: Explosion radius
* `sound`: Explosion sound (NOT optional)

Commit message:

Remove sound argument from tnt.explode, update API

mods/rp_tnt/API.md, after:

# `rp_tnt` API

This file documents the functions available for developers in this mod.


## `tnt.burn(pos, igniter)`

Ignite TNT at `pos`.

* `pos`: Position of TNT node
* `igniter`: Optional player object of player who ignited it or `nil` if nobody/unknown

Note: The `igniter` is only used for logging purposes.



## `tnt.boom(pos, radius, sound)`

Blows up a TNT node.
This will remove the TNT node, cause an explosion at `pos`,
removes nodes around it, drops items, damages entities, spawns particles
and plays a sound effect.

Parameters:

* `pos`: Position of the TNT node. The TNT node is required!
* `radius`: Explosion radius (default: read from `tnt_radius` setting)
* `sound`: Sound name for explosion (default: `tnt_explode`)



## `tnt.boom_notnt(pos, radius, sound, remove_nodes)`

Does an explosion.
Same as `tnt.boom` but works for non-TNT nodes as well. No TNT required.

Parameters:

* `pos`: Position of the explosion center.
* `radius`: Explosion radius (default: read from `tnt_radius` setting)
* `sound`: Sound name for explosion (default: `tnt_explode`)
* `remove_nodes`: If true, will remove nodes, otherwise won't. (default: false)


## `tnt.explode(pos, radius)`

Low-level explosion.
Does a "raw" explosion that only removes nodes and drops items.
There are no particle effects, sounds, entity damage or anything else.
Useful if you want to customize the explosion effects.

* `pos`: Center of the explosion
* `radius`: Explosion radius (NO default value!)
